# Using-Machine-Learning-to-Predict-Successful-Football-Transfers
Repository for Robbie O' Sullivan's Final Year Project with the UCC School of Computer Science.

To run, download the 'app' folder and run 'app.py'

Link to the Academic Paper: https://www.overleaf.com/read/kmjjnkcxdcgh#05ebcf

With the price of running a professional football team skyrocketing – teams are on the constant hunt to lessen their risk when it comes to spending large amounts of money on statement signings. In this project, I will build and train a Machine Learning model on previous transfer data to predict which players would have the highest likelihood to succeed at their new clubs, and potentially save football teams millions of euros.

The role of data is consistently rising in all aspects of professional sport and as such, football has increasingly become data-driven. Predictive models leverage vast amounts of historical and real-time data to make informed decisions to give clubs competitive advantage in the market, and will lead to direct results on the pitch. Each and every professional club has a team of data analysts – tasked to improve the decision making process. The difference in quality of analysis shown in the market is staggering, with some clubs consistently recruiting very effectively, while others waste massive budgets on poorly informed decisions.

Measuring the success of a transfer is difficult to do, with many factors to consider when judging the performance of a new player, such as appearances, goals scored, games won, competitions won, awards won, and the rise in the players market value to give a few examples. As hard as it is to measure a successful transfer, predicting a successful transfer, is even harder. I will attempt to build a machine learning model that considers these factors, and when prompted by the user through a web application, gives a potential successful transfer list for the club and position in question. I will train this model on data from "Transfermarkt”, a dataset available online. This dataset has everything I need to complete this prediction project, and as such, is extremely large in size. Therefore, I will have to perform data preprocessing, including handling missing values, encoding categorical variables, and scaling features. Exploratory data analysis and feature selection will be essential to understand the dataset and to select the most relevant features for transfer prediction.
